All right so now let's move on to the ranking algorithm.
Now I'm going to talk specifically about Kickstarter but these kinds of concepts apply to most of these
crowdfunding platforms.
After all they all need to figure out some way of putting something first or putting something below
that.
So the algorithm is really important because if you look at a chart or pledges you can see that about
twenty one thousand pounds was pledged by backas who we brought to the Kickstarter platform but about
18000 So almost half of all the pledges were pledged through the Kickstarter platform so they were from
people who organically came across our campaign while they were browsing on the Kickstarter platform.
So it's really important to try and optimize various things try and get as big a slice of that green
pie as possible.
And I'm going to show you some of the ways that you can do that.
So essentially the goal is to appear here in the what's popular section and also in the popular sections
for different categories so people tend to browse within certain categories that they're interested
in.
Usually the most popular ones are technology and design.
So in the popular sections overall on Kickstarter as well as the ones for technology or for design this
is where people are going to come across your campaign.
And if your main image captures them and if your description is interesting enough then people will
click on it and discover your campaign video.
So showing up here is the first step towards getting backers from Kickstarter itself.
And this is one of the reasons why you really want to go with the biggest platform which currently is
Kickstarter because it means that you're going to get the most eyeballs on your project that is going
to be organically from the platform and not from traffic that you're driving yourself.
So a lot of this time especially in the next few modules we're going to be exploring how you can drive
traffic toward your campaign but you also want to go with a platform that has a large enough platform
effect that will bring you more traffic just by being on them.
And for us that meant we had to list on Kickstarter.
So one of the things that we did was we did a lot of data mining and we looked at the Kickstarter platform
for about 60 days sequentially covering about 1400 projects that were active during that period and
encompassing about 15 categories.
And we collected and looked at all of that data did a bunch of math on it and we found out some of the
factors that were contributing towards the ranking algorithm.
So I'm going to share those with you now.